Quranic Dilemma: This Dilemma says that according to the Quran, Allah gave different revelations to different groups 
of people through different prophets, and those different groups are responsible for obeying the scriptures that were
revealed to them. Christians received the Gospel through Jesus. The Gospel is still reliable and authoritative, and
Christians are commanded to judge by the Gospel and not by the Quran. This is a dilemma because we learn all of this
from the Quran.


Surah 3:2-3: "Allah! There is no god worthy of worship except Him-the Ever Living, All-Sustaining[2]. He has revealed to you
O Prophet the Book in truth, confirming what came before it, as He revealed the Torah and the Gospel[3]"
This shows us that Allah is the subject of these verses. We also are shown that Allah revealed the Quran to Muslims. 
Then after that, he says that the Quran confirms the truth revealed before in the Bible(Old and New Testament). Since
we know that the Bible has not been changed and we know that the Bible came before 610 the release date of the Quran we 
therefore know and learn from this verse that the Quran confirms the Bible to be true. I would also like to note that
Muslims must believe the previous revelations or signs to be true or they shall receive severe punishment
according to Surah 3:4. Another thing in Surah 3:4 states that aforetime, as a guidance to mankind. So this also
states that the Old and New Testaments are to act as guides to Muslims.


Surah 5:45-47: "And therein We prescribed for them: a life for a life, an eye for an eye, a nose for a nose, an ear
for an ear, a tooth for a tooth, and for wounds, retribution. But whosoever judges not by that which God has sent down
it is they who are wrongdoers[45]. And in their footsteps, We sent Jesus son of Mary, confirming the Torah that had 
come before him, and We gave him the Gospel, wherein is a guidance and a light, confirming the Torah that had come
before him, as a guidance and an exhortation to the reverent[46]. Let the people of the Gospel judge by what God has
sent down therein. Whosoever judges not by that which God has sent down-it is they who are iniquitous[47]." An interesting
note is the words before him, the Arabic letters that when translated to English say "ma bayna yadayhi" This phrase
can mean between his hands or in his presence. So when verse 46 says confirming the Torah that had come before him
this means that Jesus had the Torah in his time this is significant because we have Torahs from before Jesus so 
you can't say that the Torah has been changed because we have original copies. Verse 46 also says that Allah gave Jesus
the Gospel, that the Gospel is a guidance and a light, and that the Gospel confirms the Torah, the Quran also says that 
The Torah acts as a guidance and an exhortation. If Allah has said these things in the Quran and Muslims believe that
The Old and New Testaments have been changed then why does Allah say here that these are to act as guidance? If these
were changed then wouldn't Allah point you away from them? Verse 47 says that Christians shouldn't judge by
what is said in the Quran but rather what has been sent in the Gospel. Then Allah warns people that if they judge
by what has not been sent down in the Gospel and Torah then it is they who are morally wrong. Ought implies can, if you
ought to do something then you have a moral obligation to do it, and if you have a moral obligation to do something that
means you can do it. So when Allah commands Christians to judge by the Gospel and he tells us that we
are iniquitous if we don't, Allah's command assumes we still have the Gospel.


Surah 5:65-68: "Had the People of the Book believed and been reverent, We would surely have absolved them of their
evil deeds, and caused them to enter the Garden of bliss[65]. Had they observed the Torah and the Gospel and that
which was sent down unto them from their Lord, they would surely have received nourishment from above them and from
beneath their feet. There is a moderate community among them; but as for many of them, evil is that which they do![66]
O Messenger! Convey that which has been sent unto thee from thy Lord, and if thou dost not, thou wilt not have
conveyed His message. And God will protect thee from mankind. Surely God guides not disbelieving people[67]. Say, 'O
People of the Book! You stand on naught till you observe the Torah and the Gospel, and that which has been sent
unto you from your Lord.' Surely that which has been sent unto thee from thy Lord will increase many of them in
rebellion and disbelief. So grieve not for the disbelieving people[68]. A common theme and pattern in the Quran are 
that Jews and Christians don't believe and are not reverend, but if they had observed the Torah and the Gospel and that
which was sent down to them by their Lord something we can only do if we have the preserved Gospel and Torah they
would have surely received nourishment from above them and from beneath their feet. There is another theme that
there is a small community among them that follows and obeys God. The Quran's criticism of Jews and Christians
is not that we have corrupted scriptures but that we do not follow our scriptures. If you think this is wrong look
at verse 68 which states that Jews and Christians have nothing to stand on until we obey the Torah and the Gospel. An
important thing to remember is that ought implies can. Can we obey and follow the Torah and the Gospel if we don't
have the Torah and the Gospel? We cannot so Allah is proclaiming that we still have the Torah and the Gospel.
He commands us to obey the Torah and the Gospel. It is clear that Jews and Christians are supposed to judge
by the scriptures that were given to them not by the Quran.


The Context of this passage is Moses going up the mountain to receive the tablets, Aaron makes a golden calf, Moses
comes back down the mountaintop and he is mad, and Allah is mad, Moses tells Allah that he shouldn't punish them because
Allah is the one who decides to lead them astray or guide them, and Moses asks that Allah prescribe good for us.
Now here in this Surah Allah responds to Surah 7:156-157: "He said, 'I cause My Punishment to smite whomsoever I will,
though My Mercy encompasses all things. I shall prescribe it for those who are reverent, and give alms, and those
who believe in Our signs[156], those who follow the Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whom they find inscribed in
the Torah and the Gospel that is with them, who enjoins upon them what is right, and forbids them what is wrong, and
makes good things lawful for them, and forbids them bad things, and relieves them of their burden and the shackles
that were upon them. Thus those who believe in him, honor him, help him, and follow the light that has been sent
down with him; it is they who shall prosper[157]." This can be confusing because we must remember that Allah
is saying this to Moses; so, Moses asks Allah to be merciful against Aaron who made an idol, and Allah replies "those
who follow the messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whom they find inscribed in the Torah and the Gospel that is with
them," Now most Muslims are convinced this is Muhammed but this must be very confusing to Moses because Moses has no
idea what the Gospel is or who Muhammed is. Most Muslims are convinced because of what is said at the end of verse 157
"those who believe in him, honor him, help him, and follow the light that has been sent down with him; it is they who
shall prosper." so if we look at this from a discussion stand point Moses asks Allah to be merciful and Allah says
I will only be merciful to those who believe in Muhammed. Now considering Muhammed was born at least 2000 years later
this would have been no small task for Moses and his followers. If we are being Generous we can only conclude
that this was for Muhammed's listeners when verse this was eventually revealed. Since this was revealed during the
time of Muhammed the part that is relevant to us is "those who follow the Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whom
they find inscribed in the Torah and the Gospel that is with them," Now inherently this claims that Muhammed is
prophesied in the Torah and the Gospel that is with them. The key section from this part of verse 157 is "that is with
them". This is astounding because it shows that Allah is referring to the Torah and Gospel that Jews and Christians
have with them. So this would mean that Jews and Christians can have mercy if they follow the Torah and the Gospel
that they have with them.


In conclusion, We can decide by the words of the Quran that the Old and New Testaments are not corrupted, authoritative 
and reliable, and lastly Christians and Jews are commanded to follow the Old and New Testaments according to the Quran.

---------------------------------------------------

Important Notes/Quran Verses for Christians to Know

Surah 4:157: "That they said (in boast), "We killed Christ Jesus The son of Mary, The Messenger of Allah";-But they
killed him not, Nor crucified him. Only a likeness of that Was shown to them. And those who differ therein are full
of doubts. With no (certain) knowledge. But only conjecture to follow, For of a surety They killed him not:-[157]
The common perception is that Allah disguised someone to look like Jesus and that person was crucified, but not the actual
Jesus of Nazareth. A small group of Muslim scholars have come up with the idea that if you think you have killed
someone like Jesus (who is still alive according to these scholars) you haven't won in killing them. Also, an
interesting note is that since Allah miraculously disguised someone into looking like Jesus and tricked everyone; that
would imply that Allah is a master deceiver.


Surah 9:29: "Fight those who believe not In Allah nor the Last Day, Nor hold that forbidden Which hath been forbidden
By Allah and His Messenger, Nor acknowledge the Religion Of Truth, from among The People of the Book Until they pay
the Jizya With willing submission, And feel themselves subdued[29]. Jizya is money you pay to someone superior
to you. This verse states that Muslims are allowed to attack someone who is not of the Islamic faith physically
Allah commands you to attack disbelievers who don't pay the Jizya or in other words the inferiority tax. I think
another interesting point is that this is literally what Hamas has done to Israel. Hamas invaded Israel because
Jews are in their land and are not paying this "tax". A captivating fact occurs in the very next verse Surah 9:30:
"The Jews say, 'Ezra is the son of Allah,' while the Christians say. 'The Messiah is the son of Allah.' Such are their
bassless assertions, only parroting the words of earlier disbelievers. May Allah condemn them! How can they be deluded
from the truth?"[30] This verse clearly states why disbelievers are to be persecuted and attacked. It is
for the belief that they hold to know who the son of Allah is. This explains many events in the past of Christian and
Jewish persecution. An example of this persecution could be the Crusades. The Muslim Seljuk Turks started war with
the Christians by trying to take captive the Holy Land which was held by the Byzantine Empire and the Roman Empire.
During these Crusades, Muslims took parts of the Holy Land and Christians took back the Holy Land several times. Eventually,
the Muslims took control of parts of the Holy Land and the Christians would not take back the Holy Land. One
semi-interesting fact is that the Golden Age of Islam took place from 622AD to 1258AD and this Golden Age took place
during the Crusades, and since the Muslims won for the majority of the Crusades that would mean that the Golden Age
of Islam was at the Expense of Christendom. During the times that Islam had control of the Holy Land, Muslims enforced
a tax against people who were not Muslim, this would sound very familiar to the Jizya tax that the Muslims are supposed
to enforce on people who are not Muslim. My entire point in bringing all of this up is that Islam as a religion has spread
significantly by the sword and that Islam is a religion of the sword according to its very own verses.