Quranic Dillema: This Dillema says that according to the Quran, Allah gave different revelations to different groups 
of people through different prohpets, and those different groups are responsible for obeying the scriptures that were
revealed to them. Christians recieved the Gospel through Jesus. The Gospel is still reliable and authoritative, and
Christians are commanded to judge by the Gospel and not by the Quran. This is a dillema because we learn all of this
from the Quran.


Surah 3:2-3:"Allah! There is no god worthy of worship except Him-the Ever Living, All-Sustaining[2]. He has revealed to you
O Prophet the Book in truth, confriming what came before it, as He revealed the Torah and the Gospel[3]"
This shows us that Allah is the subject of these verses. We also are shown that Allah revealed the quran to muslims. 
Then after that he says that the quran confrims the truth revealed before in the Bible(Old and New Testament). Since
we know that the Bible has not been changed and we know that the Bible came before 610 the release date of the quran we 
therefore know and learn from this verse that the quran confrims the Bible to be true. I would also like to note that
Muslims must believe the previous revelations or in other words signs to be true or they shall recieve severe punishment
according to Surah 3:4. Another thing in Surah 3:4 it states that aforetime, as a guideance to mankind. So this also
states that the Old and New Testaments are to act as guides to Muslims.


Surah 5:45-47: "And therein We prescribed for them: a life for a life, an eye for an eye, a nose for a nose, an ear
for an ear, a tooth for a tooth, and for wounds,retribution. But whosoever judges not by that which God has sent down
it is they who are wrongdoers[45]. And in their footsteps, We sent Jesus son of Mary, confirming the Torah that had 
come before him, and We gave him the Gospel, wherein is a guidance and a light, confirming the Torah that had come
before him, as a guidance and an exhortation to the reverent[46]. Let the people of the Gospel judge by what God has
sent down therein. Whosoever judges not by that which God has sent down-it is they who are iniquitous[47]." An interesting
note is the words before him, the Arabic letters that when translated to english say "ma bayna yadayhi" This phrase
can mean between his hands or in his presence. So when verse 46 says confirming the Torah that had come before him
this means that Jesus had the Torah in his time this is significant because we have Torahs from before Jesus so 
you can't say that the Torah has been changed because we have original copies. Verse 46 also says that Allah gave Jesus
the Gospel and the Gospel is a guidance and a light and that the Gospel confirms the Torah, the Quran also says that 
The Torah acts as a guidance and an exhoration. If Allah has said these things in the Quran and Muslims believe that
The Old and New Testament have been changed then why does Allah say here that these are to act as guidances if they
were really changed then wouldn't Allah point you away from them? Verse 47 says that Christians shouldn't judge by
what is said in the Quran but rather what has been sent in the Gospel. Then Allah warns people that if they judge
by what has not been sent down in the Gospel and Torah then it is they who are morally wrong. Ought implies can, if you
ought to do something then you have a moral oblegation to do it and if you have a moral oblegation to do something that
means you have the ability to do it. So when Allah commands Christians to judge by the Gospel and he tells us that we
are iniqutious if we don't, Allah's command assumes we still have the Gospel.


Surah 5:65-68: "Had the People of the book believed and been reverent, We would surely have absolved  them of their
evil deeds, and caused them to enter the Garden of bliss[65]. Had they observed the Torah and the Gospel and that
which was sent down unto them from their Lord, they would surely have receiverd nourishment from above them and from
beneath their feet. There is a moderate community among them; but as for many of them, evil is that which they do![66]
O Messenger! Convey that which has been sent down unto thee from thy Lord, and if thou dost not, thou wilt not have
conveyed His message. And God will protect thee from mankind. Surely God guides not disbelieving people[67]. Say, 'O
People of the Book! You stand on naught till you observe the Torah and the Gospel, and that which has been sent down
unto you from your Lord.' Surely that which has been sent down unto thee from thy Lord will increase many of them in
rebellion and disbelief. So grieve not for the disbelieving people[68]. A common theme and pattern in the Quran is 
that Jews and Christians don't believe and are not reverend, but if they had observed the Torah and the Gospel and that
which was sent down to them by their Lord something we can only do if we have the preserved Gospel and Torah they
would have surely recieved nourishment from above them and from beneath their feet. There is another theme that
there is a small community among them that do follow and do obey God. The Qurans criticism of Jews and Christians
is not that we have corrupted scriptures but that we do not follow our scriptures. If you think this is wrong look
verse 68 which states that Jews and Christians have nothing to stand on untill we obey the Torah and the Gospel. A
very important thing to remember is ought implies can. Can we obey and follow the Torah and the Gospel if we don't
have the Torah and the Gospel? Cleary we cannot so Allah is proclaiming that we still have the Torah and the Gospel.
He actually commands us to obey the Torah and the Gospel. It is clear that Jews and Christians are supposed to judge
by the scriptures that were given to them not by the Quran.


The Context of this passage is Mosses going up the mountain to recieve the tablets, Aaron makes a golden caf, Mosses
Comes back down the mountain and he is mad, Allah is mad, Mosses tells Allah that he shouldn't punish them because
Allah is the one who decides to lead them astray or guide them, and Mosses asks that Allah prescribes good for us.
Now here in this Surah Allah responds Surah 7:156-157: "He said, 'I cause My Punishment to smite whomsoever I will,
though My Mercy encompasses all things. I shall prescribe it for those who are reverent, and give alms, and those
who believe in Our signs[156], those who follow the Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whom they find inscribed in
the Torah and the Gospel that is with them, who enjoins upon them what is right, and forbids them what is wrong, and
makes good things lawful for them, and forbids them bad things, and relieves them of their burden and the shackles
that were upon them. Thus those who believe in him, honor him, help him, and follow the light that has been sent
down with him; it is they who shall prosper[157]." This can be actually confusing because we must remember that Allah
is saying this to Mosses, So Mosses asks Allah to be merciful against Aaron who made an idol and Allah replies "those
who follow the messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whom they find inscribed in the Torah and the Gospel that is with
them," Now most Muslims are convince this is Muhammed but this must be very confusing to Mosses because Mosses has no
idea what the Gospel is or who Muhammed is. Most Muslims are convince because of what is said at the end of verse 157
"those who believes in him, honor him, help him, and follow the light that has been sent down with him; it is they who
shall prosper." so if we look at this from a disscussion stand point Mosses asks Allah to be merciful and Allah says
I will only be merciful to those who believe in Muhammed. Now considering Muhammed was born atleast 2000 years later
this would have been no small task for Mosses and his followers. If we are being Generous we can really only conclude
that this was for Muhammeds listeners when verse this was eventually revealed. Since this was revealed during the
time of Muhammed the part that is relevent to us is "those who follow the Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whom
they find inscribed in the Torah and the Gospel that is with them," Now inherently this claims that Muhammed is
prophesied in the Torah and the Gospel that is with them. The key words from this part of verse 157 is "that is with
them". This is astounding because it shows that Allah is refering to the Torah and Gospel that Jews and Christians
have with them. So this would mean that Jews and Christians can have mercy if they follow the Torah and the Gospel
that they have with them.


In conclusion, We can decide by the words of the Quran that the Old and New Testaments are not corrupted, authoritative 
and reliable, and lastly that Christians and Jews are commanded to follow the Old and New Testaments according to the Quran.





