Mormonism can be clearly defined as a cult. Mormonism is not a Christian denomination because of many different reasons, The reasons to be listed below will be supported with scripture and accurate information. Our goal is to prove that Mormonism is not Christian and breaks the fundamental doctrines held by Christianity. We also use scholasticism to prove Joseph Smith as a false prophet.

Abraham 3:2-18, 5:13: The Apocrypha generally is not considered canonical, and no one besides the LDS accepts the Book of Abraham as canonical. Regardless, the star of Kolob is not known in the Apocrypha or canonical scripture anywhere other than the Book of Abraham, even according to Mormons. Most Mormons believe that God was a human, who was living on the star Kolob and was good enough to become our God. Scripture goes against this because God is eternal (ex. Isaiah 40:28), and God also does not change (ex. Malachi 3:6), meaning his nature does not change, and that He has always been God.

Mormons believe in exaltation, which is the belief that Mormons can become Gods after life on earth. This is easily refuted because nowhere in the Bible is it said that believers will become a God. This is also refuted by verses such as Revelation 22:3 which says that God's servants will worship him. We can be certain that we are the servants of God because of 1 Corinthians 3:9.

The LDS church does not take a stance on Homosexuality, this is wrong and the LDS church should take a stance, reject it, and say that it is sinful and unacceptable according to the verses in the Bible such as 1 Timothy 1:8-11, 1 Corinthian 6:9, and 1 Corinthians 7:2

Mormons believe that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene, Mary of Bethany, and Martha, as well as teaching that Jesus had physical children. The only "evidence" of this claim is a fourth-century papyrus called the "Jesus' wife papyrus", which says: "Jesus said to them, 'My wife ...". This is the only gnostic writing that explicitly states Jesus having a wife. There are a few other gnostic writings that state that Jesus had a close relationship with Mary Magdelene; however, none of these explicitly say that He was married to her, or anyone else. There is no other evidence to support the claim that Jesus was married. Because of this fact, Jesus would also be unable to have physical children through sexual reproduction because the bible clearly states that fornication, or sex outside of marriage, is sinful (ex. 1 Corinthians 6:9-11).

Mormons also believe that the trinity is composed of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit; however, they believe that each of the persons is his own being, and that he is not the same being as the other two persons, meaning that they believe in three gods rather than one god who is three persons. One god and three persons can be seen in the Bible as the trinity is mentioned in a verse such as Matthew 28:19, and the Bible teaches that there is only one god (ex. Isaiah 46:9).

The LDS Church believes that women should be permitted to preach, even to adult men. This is forbidden by the Bible in 1 Timothy 2:11-13

Joseph Smith claimed to get his revelation from the Christian God. The Christian God tells us to repent and believe in the Gospel (ex. Mark 1:14) However the revelation that Joseph Smith received is in total contradiction to the Gospel or in other words the Bible. So if Joseph Smith received his revelation from the Christian God then why does the Christian God contradict himself when that cannot happen?





We can with 100% confidence say that Mormonism is heresy and not Christian. We can decide this because Mormons believe they can become Gods, Don't believe in the Trinity, and some of them believe that God was a human from Kolob meaning God is not eternal. One last thing I think is important to mention is that there is absolutely 0 reason to believe that Joseph Smith was telling the truth, so if we cannot decipher that Joseph Smith got a revelation from God there is no reason to trust the things he says because the Bible doesn't support what he says and the historical evidence also doesnt support his claims. Another thing about Joseph Smith is that he is a perfect definition of what someone would call a false prophet. Matthew 7:15 says "Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves.". Joseph Smith claims to be Christian, Joseph Smith claims to be on the same side as the Christian God, and Joseph Smith has no evidence that the "revelations" he received are authentic. With this description of a false prophet, we can safely say that Joseph Smith is a false prophet because on the outside he claims to be Christian but inwardly his doctrines are in total opposition to Christian doctrine.